---
layout: default
title: Composite monitors
nav_order: 3
parent: Alerting
has_children: false
redirect_from:
---

# Composite monitors

---

#### Table of contents
- TOC
{:toc}

---

## About composite monitors

Basic [monitor types]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/alerting/monitors/#monitor-types) for the Alerting plugin are designed to define a single trigger type. For example, a document level monitor can trigger an alert based on a query's match with documents, while a bucket level monitor can trigger an alert based on queries aimed at aggregated values in a data source. The composite monitor extends the usefulness of the individual monitor types by providing functionality that can chain the output of multiple monitor types into a single workflow that includes multiple triggers and permits analysis of a data source based on multiple criteria. This allows you to derive more granular information about a data source, and it doesn't require you to manually coordinate the scheduling of the separate monitors.

Composite monitors solve limitations with basic monitors in the following ways:

* Composite monitors give you the ability to create complex queries through a combination of triggers generated by multiple types of monitors.
* They have the capacity to define a pipeline of rules and queries that are run as a single execution.
* They can chain together individual monitors so that the output of one can act as the input for the next, repeating this through the entire sequence of the execution.
* They provide a more complete view of a given data source by running multiple monitors and multiple types of monitors in sequence, creating finer focused results and reducing noise in the results.

## Key terms

The key terms in the following table describe the basic concepts behind composite monitors. For additional terms common to all types of monitors, see [Key terms]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/alerting/monitors/#key-terms) related to basic monitors.

| Term | Definition |
| :--- | :--- |
| Composite monitor | A combination of multiple individual monitors that includes functionality to execute each monitor in a sequence. The compound monitor can query different aspects of a dataset based on the type of monitors included in the composite monitor's definition.  |
| Delegate monitor | Any monitor of any monitor type used in the chained workflow of a compound monitor. Delegate monitors are executed sequentially according to their order in the monitor definition. |
| Findings chain | A sequence of findings where the findings for each monitor are used as the inputs for subsequent monitors. 
| Alert chain | A sequence of alerts where an alert for each monitor is used as the input for a subsequent monitor.  |
| Execution | A single run of all delegate monitors in the sequence defined in the composite monitor's configuration. |
| Execution Id | Allows for the management of data recorded from a specific execution. The execution Id associates findings and alerts with the execution and is stored in each monitor's metadata. |

## Example workflows

In a composite monitor, the chained outputs from the individual delegate monitors can be either findings or alerts. The following sections describe the workflow for each and provide an example of how they work.

### Chained findings

As an example of chained findings, consider a composite monitor configured with two delegate monitors. The second monitor is defined to use findings from the first as its input.

* The first delegate monitor (monitor #1) is a per document monitor configured to analyze a data source with the following three queries:
   1. Request payload size greater than 100 Kb.
   2. Response status = 200.
   3. Response contains a specific header.
   For every execution, the monitor queries the data source and generates findings for documents that match the conditions set out by the queries. These results by themselves are valuable. However, by adding a second monitor the sequence can apply further analysis to events in the data source.
* The second monitor (monitor #2) is a per bucket monitor that aggregates data by client IP, checks how many IPs there are, and determines how many IPs are sending these types of requests. The composite monitor configuration provides a way to add the second monitor in sequence so that it executes following the first.
* Monitor #2 first filters the findings from Monitor #1 and then queries the data derived from monitor #1. Matches with this second set of queries then generate triggers and alerts for notifications.
* Both monitors #1 and #2 return trigger results to the composite monitor according to their sequence in the configuration. The composite monitor returns a list of trigger results from monitors #1 and #2.

The following image shows a simplified workflow for a compound monitor with chained findings.

{% include gif-pause.html %}

### Chained alerts

As an example of chained alerts, consider a composite monitor configured with three delegate monitors. The first and second monitors (monitors #1 and #2) are configured to generate alerts when two specific events happen across the cluster. A third monitor (monitor #3) is configured to send an alert when both monitors #1 and #2 generate their own alerts.

*  The first delegate monitor (monitor #1) is configured to monitor CPU utilization of a service’s worker nodes. The monitor includes trigger conditions that create alerts when the CPU experiences loads above a set threshold.
* The second monitor (monitor #2) is configured to monitor incoming request counts during the same time window. The monitor includes trigger conditions that create alerts when the number of requests rises above a set threshold.
* A third monitor (monitor #3) is configured to check whether monitors #1 and #2 have created alerts. If both monitors #1 and #2 have created alerts, monitor #3 creates its own alert and sends a notification that the service is experiencing a high volume of traffic and its performance is degraded.
* The first monitor's configuration may allow for alerts due to a number of reasons, such as cluster instability or several background processes running simultaneously. So an alert for this condition alone has limited value. Similarly, monitor #2 may identify a large number of requests and send an alert, even if the cluster is able to handle the traffic. Monitor #3 filters for these two conditions and triggers an alert when they both exist. This narrows the criteria for sending notifications, which also improves the meaningfulness of the alert while removing extraneous alerts that provide no deterministic value.

The following image shows a simplified workflow for a compound monitor with chained alerts.

{% include gif-pause2.html %}

## Configuring composite monitors

You can configure composite monitors using the REST API. At this stage, the API offers the most versatility for setting up composite monitors. This covers monitors for chaining both findings and alerts. OpenSearch Dashboards is also available for creating composite monitors that chain alerts.