---
layout: default
title: Synthetic Data Generation
nav_order: 5
has_children: true
parent: Features
has_toc: false
redirect_from:
  - /benchmark/features/synthetic-data-generation/
  - /benchmark/features/synthetic-data-generation/index/
more_cards:
  - heading: "OpenSearch Index Mappings Approach"
    description: "Generating synthetic data with OpenSearch Index Mappings"
    link: "/benchmark/features/synthetic-data-generation/mapping-sdg/"
  - heading: "Custom Logic Approach"
    description: "Generate synthetic data with custom logic"
    link: "/benchmark/features/synthetic-data-generation/custom-logic-sdg/"
  - heading: "Advanced"
    description: "Advanced guide on generating data"
    link: "/benchmark/features/synthetic-data-generation/advanced/"
  - heading: "Tips and Tricks"
    description: "Advice to help you generate data efficiently"
    link: "/benchmark/features/synthetic-data-generation/tips/"
---

# Synthetic Data Generation

## Overview

Starting in 2.0, OpenSearch Benchmark comes with its own synthetic data generator that can generate any dataset, for any use case, at any scale. OpenSearch Benchmark’s synthetic data generator currently uses Random data generation and Rule-based generation to generate synthetic data.

* Random data generation is data generated with random values. This is useful for testing stress testing systems.
* Rule-based synthesized data is data generated by specific rules defined by users. This is useful for stress testing systems and benchmarking use-cases.

However, there are plans to support other techniques such as:

* **Data masking and anonymization**: altering existing data’s specific fields to ensure privacy
* **Data transformation**: taking existing data and using statistical methods to generate new data

## Usage

Users can generate synthetic data with the subcommand generate-data. There are currently two ways to generate synthetic data in OpenSearch — with an OpenSearch index mapping or a custom Python module. The following pages explore generating data with OpenSearch index mappings, generating data with a custom Python module, and general tips and tricks users can use.

{% include cards.html cards=page.more_cards %}