---
layout: default
title: Getting started
parent: Threat Intelligence
nav_order: 41
---

# Getting started

Use the following steps to get started with threat intelligence.

## Step 1: Connect threat intelligence Source

If you want to simply try out threat intelligence, you use the default IP reputation feed from [AlienVault OTX](https://otx.alienvault.com/).

To add a custom threat intelligence source use the `S3_CUSTOM` type, using the following steps:

1. Upload threat intelligence feed as files to your S3 account and provide OpenSearch with the IAM Role ARN to access that file.
The file should have contain IoC's in the `STIX2` format. The supported IoC Types are `hashes`, `ipv4-addr`, `domain-name`, `ipv6-addr`.
2. In OpenSearch Dashboards, create a threat intelligence source with following information: 
   - The S3 bucket details 
   - The IAM Role ARN 
3. With the source created, connect and download IoC's into OpenSearch using one of the following methods: 
   - Define a refresh schedule and periodically upload the latest batch of IoC's to S3 and replace the old file. During the refresh period, OpenSearch downloads the latest IoC's. 
   - Upload a one-time file using the `IOC_UPLOAD` type. This type does not have a refresh schedule and must use the [Source API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-analytics/threat-intelligence/api/source/)

## Step 2: Configure Threat Intelligence Monitor

Threat Intelligence Monitor will be configured with your aliases or data streams. It runs every minute (by default or at a configurable periodicity) and scans the newly ingested data in your indices to match against the IoC's present in threat intelligence feeds connected to OpenSearch. 
If any malicious IoC's are matched OpenSearch creates findings. Optionally, you can configure triggers in monitor to create alerts and send notifications to your desired webhooks and endpoints
For every alias or data stream configured in the monitor, you must mention which fields are to be scanned for each type of IoC.
For instance, if an alias called `my-logs` has 2 fields called `src_ip` and `dst_ip` which contain ipv4-addresses, you must mention them during monitor creation/update under the `ipv4-addr` section.

### Step 3: Findings Alerts and Notifications

You can view the findings and alerts generated by threat intelligence monitors to analyze which malicious indicators have occurred in their security logs.
Alerts can be acknowledged or marked as completed. Notifications sent out to configured destinations will contain information about alerts, monitor, datasource, IoC value, type etc. Notification message uses mustache template and can be customized as per requirement.